>> Steve Kinney: Now we have
our bag of tokens, right?
What we wanna kind of do next is figure
out what does it all mean, right?
And so, parsing is really the combination
of both lexical analysis and
syntactic analysis.
But normally, you'll hear either lexing or
tokenization for
getting the tokens and
then parsing for figuring it all out.
But together, they're all really parsing.
>> Steve Kinney: So once we've broken out,
we need to figure out what
does anything of this mean.
So we turn to what is normally called
an intermediate representation, right?
It's not the end product
that we're spinning out to,
it is some data structure that
we can play with and manipulate.
So one thing to check out is AST Explorer.
AST Explorer is really cool.
Actually, I'll open it up real fast.
>> Steve Kinney: So here's a very
simple one with just an ad save, and
this one is using Babel.
And you can see, effectively what Babel
takes is relatively simple function and
breaks it up into, right?
So it's got a file,
it actually keeps the start and the end.
And this is useful.
I told you we do that side by
side thinking in the HTML.
Well, it's not using Babel,
it's using HTML parser, too.
That's how we kinda annotate the nodes and
figure out where I need to move stuff.
But you see, it's a function declaration,
and there's an identifier, and
that identifier, see if I can open it.
>> Steve Kinney: Is the word add.
So on and so forth, right?
Like it kind of breaks that code into
a meaningful structure that says
the intent of what we just kind of
tokenized and figures it all out for us.
>> Steve Kinney: And most things that
we're doing have some form of an AST,
right?
There's also ways to visualize it.
So here's the same thing for
just var x equals 2.
console.log('hello').
It's breaking it all into it's meaningful
pieces so that we can figure stuff out.
And this is how Babel does its thing.
So most things are doing a lot of
transpiling will go ahead and work.
We'll actually take
the AST that we produce.
We are going to cheat a little bit,
which is let's just say
the AST that we are going to
choose produce is our intermediate
representation was inspired by
what Babel spits out, right?
So that we don't have to
do too much transformation.
It is a different language, so we have to
do a little bit of transformation, but
we're not gonna have to do too much
cuz it'll be pretty close to Babel to
begin with.
But theoretically, you could design an AST
that was bespoke for your language and
all the stuff you need it to do.
And if you can morph that tree,
cuz it's just a data structure,
you can traverse up and down it,
mutate it and do everything you need.
You can mutate it into what
the other language can accept.
Or you can at least serialize into
that other language yourself.
Cuz really, you can just go and say,
okay, like a white space or whatever.
You can rearrange the stuff and
be able to put it back into a string
effectively the reverse of that.
Or if you can use that languages
generator, you can do that as well.
You can translate your language into
any other language you want, right?
So it's console log.
You can kinda see,
it's not not super surprising.
There's some kind of different
kind of meta layers in there,
kind of tell you what l things
mean on a larger scale.
We're gonna skip a lot of those.
But for our purposes, there is kind
of a somewhat agreed upon spec for
JavaScript ASTs that a lot of that,
Acorn, Babble, use.
And pretty sure as well.
Even stuff like Prettier and
use ASTs to figure out what
the meaning of your code is to
tell you you made a boo boo.
And so,
if you can get pretty close to that spec,
which is what we are kind of purposely
doing with our very simple language,
it will become incredibly easy
to transpile it into JavaScript.